NumberConverter Help

Conversion Rules:

• Decimal to

  ◦ Roman: Since Roman numerals are only valid for positive values, the 
    converter will not accept negative or zero input.

  ◦ Binary: Has two different switches:

    1. Signed: If active, the output will be a two's complement binary. If 
       unsigned, the output will be the binary representation of the absolute 
       value of the input.

    2. Canonical: If active, truncates the leading bits.

  ◦ Hexadecimal: Provides two ways to output the Hexadecimal:

    1. Two's complement: When active, the resulting output will be the 
       hexadecimal representation of the decimal's two's complement binary. 
       The decimal input is converted to signed binary, sign extended, and 
       then converted to hexadecimal.

    2. Negative sign: The output is the unsigned equivalent of the absolute 
       value of the decimal number, with a negative sign "-" added to its left 
       if the input is negative.


• Binary to

  ◦ Decimal: Two options:

    1. Signed: In signed mode, the input will be treated as two's complement. 
       If the leftmost bit is 1, then the output is going to be negative. For 
       a positive output the leading bit will always have to be 0.

    2. Unsigned: the input will always be treated as positive.

  ◦ Hexadecimal: Pads the the binary input with leading zeros if its number of 
     digits is not a multiple of 4, and then converts it to hexadecimal.

  ◦ Roman: Since Roman numerals are always positive, the binary input is 
     treated as unsigned. The binary value is first converted to a decimal, and
     then to a Roman numeral.


• Hexadecimal to

  ◦ Binary: Replaces each hex digit with a 4-bit binary equivalent.

  ◦ Decimal: Two options:

    1. Signed: The hexadecimal input will be treated as signed (two's
       complement) and will be converted accordingly.

    2. Unsigned: The hexadecimal input will always be treated as positive.

  ◦ Roman: The input will be treated as unsigned.


• Roman to

  ◦ Decimal: The input Roman numeral has to be in valid form. For instance, 
     "XIV" is a valid Roman numeral, while "IVX" is not.

  ◦ Binary: The Roman numeral is converted to a decimal number, then the 
     decimal number is converted to an unsigned binary value.

  ◦ Hexadecimal: The output hex number will be unsigned. 